Welcome, in this video, we're going to set up the Mac command line prompt
to Git branch whenever we're in a Git repository.
To do that, I need to download a special script called Git prompt.
Open up your browser, and go to "github.com/git".
Then go into the Git repository, under master go to "contrib",
then go to "completion", then click on "gitprompt.sh".
Click on raw, and with the raw file contents, we're going to select all and the copy.
Command+a, or control+a, then command+c or control+c.
That will copy the entire contents. Then, fire up your command prompt,
and within the user's home directory, create or open up the ".bashrc" file.
I'm going to use my text editor, TextMate; I'm going to start this file with a dot,
so that it's hidden by default; "git-prompt", and I'll end it with ".sh"; then press enter.
When the text editor appears, paste in the entire contents from your clipboard;
command or control+v. Now let's save this file, command or control+s
And, in TextMate, I need to close this file with command+w,
and now quit TextMate with command+q. Now that I'm back at the terminal,
If I do an "ls -a", I see I have a ".git-prompt.sh" file.
Now, let's create our ".bashrc" file. Invoke your text editor, in my case,
"mate"; space; and then the filename ".bashrc". Press enter.
If this is a brand new file, it will be empty, otherwise you may already have existing code.
We need to include the source of that file that we just created.
So type "source", then "~", which references our user's home directory, "/.git-prompt.sh".
Great, now in the next line, we're going to export a special command.
I've already saved off that command, and now I'm going to paste it in.
What this command is basically saying, is set the "PS1" variable
to this enclosed string, which calls the "__git_ps1" function
that's included in the ".git-prompt.sh" file, passing in a parameter with "%s".
After that function returns, we're going to return our working directory,
a hardcoded dollar sign, and a space. Now that we've done that,
let's save and close, and back at our terminal, let's open up or create one more file;
this is the ".bash_profile" file.
Once you've typed in your text editor, in my case "mate"; space; the filename,
which is ".bash_profile", press enter.
For the sake of time, I have copied an existing script that I will now paste into this file.
For this file, I'm using some bash code that says to export the "CLICOLOR" variable,
setting the value to 1, then I'm using an if statement
to include the source of the ".bashrc" file.
So, regardless of whether the ".bashrc" fie or the ".bash_profile"
is executed based on wither I have an interactive terminal or not,
it's not going to matter, because it's going to still execute
whatever code that I have in the ".bashrc" file.
Let's save and then close, now back at the terminal we need to exit.
So, command+q, or in iTerm you can just type exit.
Great, now to test it out, let's fire up our terminal again.
We can already see that we have a very different terminal prompt.